# Simulating IoT: How to Build Greener Homes

## Overview

What if household appliances could communicate and coordinate? Could they collectively behave in a way that reduces household electricity use? This project contains files used in the O’Reilly Media Learning Path training video entitled Using Data Science for Business Model Innovation. In the project are two *R* scripts:

1. `simIoT.R` which requires `household_power_consumption.csv`
2. `simIoTstrategy.R` which requires `iot.businessmodel.csv`

Start by running `simIoT.R`. We start by collecting real observations of home energy consumption by household appliance. We search for opportunities to lower overall engergy consumption. We use real observations to generate simulated households and their energy consumption. We test the plausibility of the simulations by comparing them to real observations. We search the simulated households for interesting patterns of efficient energy use. We look for clusters of households that have found some unusual, but significant way of reducing energy use.

Next, run `simIoTstrategy.R`. After finding an innovative way of reducing engergy, we search through business model simulations for an equally innovative way to make the idea profitable.


## Simulating the Business Model
The `iot.businessmodel.csv` file was created based on a business model simulation algorithm. The algorithm’s design is described in the [A Prototype Business Model Simulator](https://blogs.csc.com/2015/04/29/a-prototype-business-model-simulator/) blog. The business model is patterned after the *multi-sided platform pattern*. The idea is to connect home automation customers with utility customers. The biggest benefit of the multi-sided platform model is the network effect that comes from bringing together new customer segments. We model our strategy based on the assumption of a high network effect. We selected on those records where `imt2 > 0.7`.

We also assume that the platform is designed specifically to optimize the energy consumption of the appliances. This allows us to position the application as an energy product which increases the application's elasticity of demand. That is, because we are optimizing something as important as energy consumption we assume that consumers will be tolerant to more price increase. We selected on those records where `ped2 > 1.4`. The `iot.businessmodel.csv` file was generated by the following code:

```R
#read the universe of simulated business models
models <- read.csv("sim1.csv")

#select a subset of the models that corresponds to the strategy of
#building a platform for enabling smarter, more efficient household appliances

#the strategy is modeled after the multi-sided platform pattern. the idea
#is to connect home automation customers with utility customers. the biggest
#benefit of the multi-sided platform model is the network effect that comes
#from bringing together new customer segments. we model our strategy based on
#the assumption of a high network effect
businessmodel <- models[models$imt2 > .7,]

#we also assume that the platform is designed specifically to optimize the
#energy consumption of the appliances. this allows us to position the application
#as an energy product which increases the application's elasticity of demand.
#that is, because we are optimizing something as important as energy consumption
#we assume that consumers will be tolerant to a higher degree of price increase
businessmodel <- businessmodel[businessmodel$ped2 > 1.4,]

#remove the unnecessary id column
businessmodel$X <- NULL

#store the strategy file for subsequent analysis
write.csv(businessmodel, file="iot.businessmodel.csv", row.names=FALSE)
```

The following is a description of fields contained in the `financial.institute.businessmodel.csv` file:

Field | Description | Range
--- | --- | ---
cns1, cns2 | current consumers (millions) for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0-100
pcn1, pcn2 | potential consumers (millions) for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0-100
inv1, inv2 | coefficient of innovation for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0.01-0.10
imt1, imt2 | coefficient of imitation for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0.1-1.0
ped1, ped2 | price elasticity of demand for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0.5-1.5
oe1, oe2 | output elasticity for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0-1
cpex1, cpex2 | initial capital investment (in $millions) for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively |: 0-100
pro1, pro2 | days required to make a working prototype for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 14-1000
ikp1, ikp2 | improvement rate of key partners for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0.1-0.9
