# Simulating Biology: Creating New Virtual Breeds of Iris

## Overview
Can we create a business by breeding new species of Iris flowers? Can we take species of Iris that we've already observed, simulate cross-breeding of those plants, and create a business model based on the resulting flowers? This project contains files used in the O’Reilly Media Learning Path training video entitled Using Data Science for Business Model Innovation. In the project are two R scripts:

1.	`sim Iris.R` which uses the Iris data set included in R
2.	`sim iris strategy.R` which requires iris.businessmodel.csv

Start by running `sim Iris.R`. We start by reading observations of real Iris plants. We use real observations to generate simulated new cross-breeds of Iris plants. We test the plausibility of the simulations by comparing them to real observations. We search the simulated Iris plants for new and interesting characteristics. 

Next, run `sim iris strategy.R`. After finding new potential species of Iris, we search through business model simulations for a new and innovative way to make selling the flowers profitable.

## Simulating the Business Model

The `iris.businessmodel.csv` file was created based on a business model simulation algorithm. The algorithm’s design is described in the [A Prototype Business Model Simulator](https://blogs.csc.com/2015/04/29/a-prototype-business-model-simulator/) blog post. The idea behind the new business model is to use the novelty of the new Iris breeds to attract new adopters through advertising and word of mouth. We model the strategy with the assumption of a high coefficient of innovation and imitation. We select only those records where `inv2 > .05` and `imt2 > 0.5`. The `iris.businessmodel.csv` file was generated by the following code:

```R
#read the universe of simulated business models
models <- read.csv("sim1.csv")

#select a subset of the models that corresponds to the strategy of
#creating and selling novel iris breeds

#the strategy is to use the novelty of the new iris breeds to attract new
#adopters through advertising and word of mouth. we model the strategy
#with the assumption of a high coefficient of innovation and imitation
businessmodel <- models[models$inv2 > .05,]
businessmodel <- businessmodel[businessmodel$imt2 > .5,]

#remove the unnecessary id column
businessmodel$X <- NULL

#store the strategy file for subsequent analysis
write.csv(businessmodel, file="iris.businessmodel.csv", row.names=FALSE)
```

The following is a description of fields contained in the `iris.businessmodel.csv` file:

Field | Description | Range
--- | --- | ---
cns1, cns2 | current consumers (millions) for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0-100
pcn1, pcn2 | potential consumers (millions) for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0-100
inv1, inv2 | coefficient of innovation for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0.01-0.10
imt1, imt2 | coefficient of imitation for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0.1-1.0
ped1, ped2 | price elasticity of demand for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0.5-1.5
oe1, oe2 | output elasticity for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0-1
cpex1, cpex2 | initial capital investment (in $millions) for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively |: 0-100
pro1, pro2 | days required to make a working prototype for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 14-1000
ikp1, ikp2 | improvement rate of key partners for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0.1-0.9
