# Simulating People: How to Build Better Healthcare

## Overview
What if a hospital were willing to make comprehensive changes in how it treats and interacts with patients? Could a hospital improve the quality of patient care by changing its operations? This project contains files used in the O’Reilly Media Learning Path training video entitled Using Data Science for Business Model Innovation. In the project are two R scripts:

1. `sim Healthcare.R` which requires `data.health.csv`
2. `sim Hospital strategy.R` which requires `hospital.businessmodel.csv`

Start by running `sim Healthcare.R`. We start by collecting real observations of hospital patient experiences. We search for opportunities improve the quality of care. We use real observations to generate simulated hospitals and patient care experiences. We test the plausibility of the simulations by comparing them to real observations. We search the simulated patient experiences for interesting patterns of high-quality care. We look for clusters of hospitals that have found some unusual, but significant way of improving a patient's experience. 

Next, run `sim Hospital strategy.R`. After finding an innovative way of improving a patient's experience, we search through business model simulations for an equally innovative way to make the idea profitable.

## Simulating the Business Model

The `healthcare.businessmodel.csv` file was created based on a business model simulation algorithm. The algorithm’s design is described in the [A Prototype Business Model Simulator](https://blogs.csc.com/2015/04/29/a-prototype-business-model-simulator/) blog. The business model is patterned after the *long-tail platform* pattern. The idea is to use consumer-grade communication technology to allow patients to interact with nurses and doctors. this allows hospitals to provide personalized care to a large population of patients. We model the strategy with the assumption of high returns to scale and large customer potential. We selected only those records where `oe2 > 0.7` and `pcn2 > 75`. The `healthcare.businessmodel.csv` file was generated by the following code:

```R
#read the universe of simulated business models
models <- read.csv("sim1.csv")

#select a subset of the models that corresponds to the strategy of
#offer student loan payment as a corporate benefit

#the strategy is modeled after the freemium business model. the strategy
#is to subsidize the re-payment of a student load by offering lower payments
#for students that work within an employer network. paying a student loan becomes
#more closely related to long-term employment. we model the strategy with
#the assumption that we will enjoy a higher elasticity of demand.

businessmodel <- models[models$ped2 > 1.4,]

#remove the unnecessary id column
businessmodel$X <- NULL

#store the strategy file for subsequent analysis
write.csv(businessmodel, file="financial.institute.businessmodel.csv", row.names=FALSE)
```

The following is a description of fields contained in the `financial.institute.businessmodel.csv` file:

Field | Description | Range
--- | --- | ---
cns1, cns2 | current consumers (millions) for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0-100
pcn1, pcn2 | potential consumers (millions) for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0-100
inv1, inv2 | coefficient of innovation for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0.01-0.10
imt1, imt2 | coefficient of imitation for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0.1-1.0
ped1, ped2 | price elasticity of demand for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0.5-1.5
oe1, oe2 | output elasticity for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0-1
cpex1, cpex2 | initial capital investment (in $millions) for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively |: 0-100
pro1, pro2 | days required to make a working prototype for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 14-1000
ikp1, ikp2 | improvement rate of key partners for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0.1-0.9
