# Simulating Companies: How to Build a Better Financial Institution

## Overview

What if a financial institution were willing to make comprehensive changes to the services they provide to customers? Could a financial institution improve the customer's experience by selecting the right combination of financial services? This project contains files used in the O’Reilly Media Learning Path training video entitled Using Data Science for Business Model Innovation. In the project are two R scripts:

1.	`sim Financial Institute.R` which requires household_power_consumption.csv
2. `sim Financial Institute strategy.R` which requires iot.businessmodel.csv

Start by running `sim Financial Institute.R`. We start by collecting real observations of customer financial service experiences. We search for opportunities to improve the overall customer experience. We use real observations to generate simulated financial service experiences. We test the plausibility of the simulations by comparing them to real observations. We search the simulated customer experiences for interesting patterns of customer satisfaction. We look for clusters of institutions that have found some unusual, but significant way of improving a customer's experience. 

Next, run `sim Financial Institute strategy.R`. After finding an innovative way of improving a customer's experience, we search through business model simulations for an equally innovative way to make the idea profitable.

## Simulating the Business Model

The `financial.institute.businessmodel.csv` file was created based on a business model simulation algorithm. The algorithm’s design is described in the [A Prototype Business Model Simulator](https://blogs.csc.com/2015/04/29/a-prototype-business-model-simulator/) blog. The business model is patterned after the *freemium business model*.  The strategy is to subsidize the re-payment of a student load by offering lower payments for students that work within an employer network. Paying a student loan becomes more closely related to long-term employment. We model the strategy with the assumption that we will enjoy a higher elasticity of demand. We select only those records where `ped2 > 1.4`. The `financial.institute.businessmodel.csv` file was generated by the following code:

```R
#read the universe of simulated business models
models <- read.csv("sim1.csv")

#select a subset of the models that corresponds to the strategy of
#offer student loan payment as a corporate benefit

#the strategy is modeled after the freemium business model. the strategy
#is to subsidize the re-payment of a student load by offering lower payments
#for students that work within an employer network. paying a student loan becomes
#more closely related to long-term employment. we model the strategy with
#the assumption that we will enjoy a higher elasticity of demand.

businessmodel <- models[models$ped2 > 1.4,]

#remove the unnecessary id column
businessmodel$X <- NULL

#store the strategy file for subsequent analysis
write.csv(businessmodel, file="financial.institute.businessmodel.csv", row.names=FALSE)
```

The following is a description of fields contained in the `financial.institute.businessmodel.csv` file:

Field | Description | Range
--- | --- | ---
cns1, cns2 | current consumers (millions) for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0-100
pcn1, pcn2 | potential consumers (millions) for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0-100
inv1, inv2 | coefficient of innovation for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0.01-0.10
imt1, imt2 | coefficient of imitation for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0.1-1.0
ped1, ped2 | price elasticity of demand for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0.5-1.5
oe1, oe2 | output elasticity for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0-1
cpex1, cpex2 | initial capital investment (in $millions) for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively |: 0-100
pro1, pro2 | days required to make a working prototype for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 14-1000
ikp1, ikp2 | improvement rate of key partners for the competitor’s business model and our business model innovation respectively | 0.1-0.9
